---
layout: default
title: CinC 2017 Challenge Dataset
parent: Datasets
permalink: datasets/cinc2017
---

# Physionet CinC 2017 Challenge Dataset
{: .no_toc }

## Table of contents
{: .no_toc .text-delta }

1. TOC
{:toc}

---

### Overview

 Item | Details 
 :--- | :--- 
 **Links** | [Dataset](https://physionet.org/content/challenge-2017/1.0.0/), [Publication](https://doi.org/10.22489/CinC.2017.065-469) 
 **Signals** | ECG recordings lasting 9-61 seconds 
 **No. Subjs** | 8,528
 **Protocol** | Handheld, single-lead recordings provided by AliveCor, alongside heart rhythm labels.

### Importing the data into MATLAB

I took the following steps to import a subset of the data into MATLAB:

1. Download the [`physionet_cinc_2017_challenge_data_collator` MATLAB script](https://github.com/peterhcharlton/info/blob/master/collating_datasets/physionet_cinc_2017_challenge_data_collator.m).
2. Download the zip folder of training ECG data from [here](https://physionet.org/content/challenge-2017/1.0.0/).
3. Unzip the folder to extract the individual files.
4. Specify the location of the folder containing the individual files in the `setup_up` function in the script (see the `up.paths.training_data_folder` variable).
5. Download the `REFERENCE-v3.csv` file containing rhythm labels from [here](https://physionet.org/content/challenge-2017/1.0.0/).
6. Specify the location of this file in the `setup_up` function in the script (see the `up.paths.training_data_labels` variable).
7. Run the MATLAB script to collate all the individual ECG data files and the reference labels into a single MATLAB data file, ready for analysis.

### Resulting dataset

The resulting dataset is a subset of the training data. Specifically, it only includes recordings of 30-second duration (5,977 out of 8,528 recordings). A duration of 30 seconds was chosen to ensure the data are in keeping with those collected in the STROKESTOP and SAFER studies (see [here](./tools/reading/af_screening) for details of these studies). The resulting subset contains the following recordings:

| Label | Abbreviation | Number of recordings | 
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Atrial fibrillation | A | 504 |
| Normal sinus rhythm | N | 3,695 |
| Other rhythm | O | 1,655 |
| Noisy | ~ | 123 |